#summary This page contains notes applicable to development team members only.
#labels Featured


= Introduction =

This page contains notes, working guidelines and references for the Frog core dev team.


= Notes =

<none yet>


= Working guidelines =

== Security related issues ==

This describes what dev team members should do if/when a security related issue is found.

=== When fixing it yourself ===
  * If the problem hasn't been reported in the issue list, create an issue for it.
    * mark the issue as "Critical"
    * also mark the issue as "Security" related
    * give a clear summary
    * describe the steps to reproduce the issue and clearly state the *expected* and *actual* outcomes.
  * Implement a fix
  * Create a post in the Security discussion within the FrogDev discussion group. (see templates section below)
    * give the title
    * give a link to the issue
    * give a description
    * mention the fix and link to the fix's revision in SVN

=== When you can't fix it ===
  * If the problem hasn't been reported in the issue list, create an issue for it.
    * mark the issue as "Critical"
    * also mark the issue as "Security" related
    * give a clear summary
    * describe the steps to reproduce the issue and clearly state the *expected* and *actual* outcomes.
  * Create a post in the Security discussion within the FrogDev discussion group. (see templates section below)
    * give the title
    * give a link to the issue
    * give a description
    * mention the fix and link to the fix's revision in SVN
  * *Clearly* mark the issue as *NOT FIXED* so another dev team member may pick it up.

=== After fix is implemented ===

At least one other Frog dev team member should test the patch and stability of Frog.

Depending on the severity of the issue, either:
  * an immediate security patch is released against the current version of Frog
  * the current version of Frog available for download is upgraded to include at least the security related fix.

OR

  * the current version of Frog available for download is upgraded to include at least the security related fix
  * no seperate security patch is released.


= Templates =

== Security post ==

{{{
ISSUE: <issue title>
LINK: http://code.google.com/p/madebyfrogs/issues/detail?id=999
DESC:

<issue description>

RESOLVED: <fixed | NOT FIXED>, see http://code.google.com/p/madebyfrogs/source/detail?r=999
}}}


= References =

The FrogDev discussion group: http://groups.google.com/group/frogdev?hl=en