#summary A roadmap for future Frog releases.
#labels Phase-Requirements

= How to read this roadmap =

This document contains the roadmap for the Frog project. It is important to know that the roadmap is *not set in stone*. This means that we will probably follow the roadmap very accurately, it may also mean that we might decide to do something else entirely due to changing priorities for example.

= Details =

0.9.4 - Fixing Frog

Updated Comments plugin and the stuff below (from changelog):

  * + Updated the comments plugin
  * + Added Indonesian translation
  * + Added "View this page" link in the Edit page screen
  * + Added "Tag to use this snippet" in the Snippets tab
  * + Added en-messages.php.template to i18n directory of core to assist translators
  * + Added admin section option to choose default tab after login (issue 29)
  * + Added display of latest plugin version in Frog admin section
  * - Fixed bug allowing HTML code in page title, now filtered with Kses
  * - $values => $value in Page.childrenCount()
  * - Fixed security issue with DB username password in index.php
  * - Fixed incorrect return and if statement in DoPgsql.php
  * - Fixed accidental assignment bug in Framework.php (issue 43)
  * - Fixed bug where "Files" tab was accessible to users without roles. Now restricted to "administrator,developer,editor" (issue 42)
  * - Fixed bug where using permissions string as parameter to addController had no effect (issue 41)
  * . Updated dutch translation
  * . Corrected the default RSS Feed, should now validate. Also added RSS subscription link tag to default Normal template.
  * . Modified the place of the "filter" input in Snippets
  * . Removed comments css code from admin.css
  * . Updated default Layout to find metadata from Edit.Page.Metadata tab
  * . Changed default footer snippet to read copyright Madebyfrog.com instead of Philworks.com

0.9.5 - Split Frog

  * Add option to admin screen: allow html in page title. (default: false)
  * Evaluate performance for Frog without frontend/backend split.
  * If we decide to go ahead with the splitless version; work on the performance
  * Add "addScript" funtion for plugin developers
  * Expand the number of events.
  * Add frontend login through plugin
  * Add plugin specific settings pages
  * Fix reorder javascript
  * Provide detailed textual upgrade instructions

1.0.0 - Frogtastic

  * Complete UTF-8 support
  * A mechanism for content in multiple languages
  * Make sure plugin tabs and parts tabs work without javascript
  * Perform (semi) automated upgrades ???

1.0.1 - Bugtastic Frog

  * Fixing bugs ONLY
  * No new functionality
  * No rewrites

1.1.0 - ???

  * Add OpenID support through plugin