#summary Guidance for translators of Frog's i18n elements.
#labels Featured,Phase-Support

== Introduction ==

Frog CMS has been designed to make "internationalization" (i18n), that is, translation of its administration and plugins, as simple as possible.

The following guidance and suggested procedures should help those who wish to (a) translate Frog into their own language, and (b) share their work with the wider Frog CMS community.

== Before you begin ==

  * Always ensure you are working with the most recent stable Frog version.
  * Consult the [http://code.google.com/p/madebyfrogs/source/browse/#svn/trunk/frog/app/backend/i18n i18n source directory] to see whether the traslation exists!
  * Consider translating the i18n files for those [http://code.google.com/p/madebyfrogs/source/browse/#svn/trunk/frog/plugins plugins] that have them. (At this time of writing, only the [http://code.google.com/p/madebyfrogs/source/browse/#svn/trunk/frog/plugins/file_manager/i18n filemanager plugin] has an i18n module.)
  * Of course, make sure you use the correct two-chacacter code for your particular language: from [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_ISO_639-1_codes Wikipedia] or the [http://www.iana.org/assignments/language-subtag-registry official list].

== Sharing your work ==

Once you have finished your translation, then we suggest you:

  # Announce your work in the [http://forum.madebyfrog.com/10 Translation] section of the Frog forums.
  # Visit the Google Code Frog [http://code.google.com/p/madebyfrogs/issues/list issue tracker], and enter your translation work as an "issue". 
  # Include your XX-message.php files as an attachment to your "issue".

== Updating your work ==

Everyone using Frog CMS is grateful for the i18n modules contributed by users. The more widely used Frog is, the larger the community will be. And that's good for everyone!

So thank you for your contribution, and please consider keeping your work up-to-date as Frog continues to develop.